check available and used memory:
>free -h

check used memory and cpu for each process:
>top

check I/O(disk performance):
>iostat


CPU:
-heavily used by processing tasks eg. pi calculation
-CPU performance will inprove if frequency is more
-increasing the number of core will inly improve perfance if program is multi-threaded, if you have 4  cores and cpu utilization in top cammand shows 100% it is not using all cores,for 4 cores it should show 400% max.

---
Memory:
-highly used by in memory computing softwares like apache spark  
-If you out of memory error it is a good indication more memory is required,but make sure your program dont have any memory leak.

---
I/O performance parameters:
1)Latency
2)Sequential read/write speed
3)Random read/write speed
4)IOPS i/o operations per second

I/O are heavily used for database,map-reduce(hadoop),website serving audio/video/image.
RDBMS will benefit a lot improving I/O capacity because in every query it reads from disk.
If IO is not good enough you will get timeout(as some operations will not be completed on time),system will also slow down or crush.

----------------
Newtorking:
How fast a machine can send or receive message from another.
It is measured in following aspects:
1)Latency
2)Throughput/bandwidth

we can use "nload" or "iftop" command to find the current amount of network being used.
Following App requires good networking :FTP server,Apache Kafka,Framework which needs lots of shuffling like apache spark or distributed filesystem.

-------------'
Burstable Instance(T2):
Over all these machines has ok cpu performance,but when this machine has to process something unexpected ,it can burst and CPU can be very good.
If cpu machine bursts it utilizes "burst credits" to handle sudden spike in load.
If over all credit is gone the cpu becomes bad.
If the machine  stops bursting,credits are accumulated over time.
See "CPU credits" table for seeing in what rate credit is earned,and what is ax accumulation capacity. for different type of t2 instances.
See CPU credit balance graph to trace when you need to upgrade t2 instance(if your instance often goes to zero cpu credit balance ie. it needs upgrade)

T2 unlimited feature(deactivated by default) can be activated in any t2 instance type.


